Deep inspection topics (#919)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/con_about-deep-inspection.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Planning_your_migration/assemblies/assembly_planning-migration-vmware.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="con_about-deep-inspection_{context}"]
= About Deep Inspection

[role="_abstract"]

> You can use Deep Inspection to analyze virtual machine (VM) disk images before migration. This finds compatibility issues that standard inspection might miss and helps you plan remediation before starting the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Deep Inspection to analyze virtual machine (VM) disk images before migration. Deep Inspection finds compatibility issues that standard inspection might miss and helps you plan remediation before starting the migration.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
Deep Inspection is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features
are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and
might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them
in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product
features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during
the development process.
====

Prerequisites::

* {vmw} vSphere source provider configured in {project-short}.
* {vmw} Virtual Disk Development Kit (VDDK) configured for the source provider. Deep Inspection uses VDDK to access VM disk images.
* Changed Block Tracking (CBT) must be enabled.
* Cluster resources available to run inspection pods. Each pod needs CPU, memory, and storage to mount and analyze VM disks.

Limitations::

> * Deep Inspection is available only for {vmw} vSphere providers. It is not available for other source providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deep Inspection is available only for {vmw} vSphere providers. 
```
first sentence contains the negative already, so the second sentence is not needed

* {project-short} limits concurrent inspections to 10 by default. Additional inspections are queued until resources become available.

Considerations::

* Deep Inspection takes longer than standard inspection. It creates a VM snapshot and inspects the base disks, then performs detailed analysis.
* Inspection time depends on VM disk size and cluster resources.

== Inspection methods

{project-short} supports two methods for inspecting VMs before migration:

> * Standard inspection: Queries the source provider's API to collect VM metadata. This includes operating system information, disk configuration, and hardware settings. This method is fast. It does not need extra resources. However, it relies on metadata from the provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Standard inspection: Queries the source provider's API to collect VM metadata. This includes operating system information, disk configuration, and hardware settings. This method is fast and does not require extra resources, but it relies on metadata from the provider.
```

> * Deep Inspection: Launches a temporary worker pod in the {ocp-short} cluster. The pod mounts and analyzes the VM's disk images directly. This method gives you more confidence in migration success. It finds guest-level issues that standard inspection might miss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deep Inspection: Launches a temporary worker pod in the {ocp-short} cluster. The pod mounts and analyzes the VM's disk images directly. This method provides greater confidence in migration success by finding guest-level issues that standard inspection might miss.
```

== How Deep Inspection works

> Deep Inspection launches a temporary pod in your {ocp-short} cluster that uses VDDK to mount the VM's disk images. {project-short} creates a snapshot to analyze the guest operating system without affecting the VM's power state, whether it is stopped or running. After analysis, {project-short} cleans up the pod and stores the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep Inspection launches a temporary pod in your {ocp-short} cluster that uses VDDK to mount the VM's disk images. {project-short} creates a snapshot to analyze the guest operating system without affecting the VM's power state, regardless of whether the VM is running or stopped. After analysis, {project-short} cleans up the pod and stores the results.
```

Author: Leaving "whether" for conciseness: 
Deep Inspection launches a temporary pod in your {ocp-short} cluster that uses VDDK to mount the VM's disk images. {project-short} creates a snapshot to analyze the guest operating system without affecting the VM's power state, whether it is running or stopped. After analysis, {project-short} cleans up the pod and stores the results.

Reviewer: nothing is a blocker, this was pedantic and merely an opinion

Author: yup understood :)

> Deep Inspection provides detailed information about the VM to help assess migration readiness:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep Inspection provides detailed information about the VM to help you assess migration readiness:
```

[cols="30%,70%",options="header"]
|===
|Category
|Information analyzed

|Operating system and hardware
a|
* Operating system name, version, and architecture

> * kernel version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kernel version
```
all the other table elements start with uppercase

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * documentation/doc-Planning_your_migration/assemblies/assembly_planning-migration-vmware.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="con_about-deep-inspection_{context}"]
= About Deep Inspection

[role="_abstract"]
You can use Deep Inspection to analyze virtual machine (VM) disk images before migration. This finds compatibility issues that standard inspection might miss and helps you plan remediation before starting the migration.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Deep Inspection is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features
are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and
might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them
in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product
features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during
the development process.
====

> Prerequisites::

Reviewer 2: please add to prereqs: CBT (change block tracking) must be enabled

* {vmw} vSphere source provider configured in {project-short}.
* {vmw} Virtual Disk Development Kit (VDDK) configured in your source provider. Deep Inspection uses VDDK to access VM disk images.
* Cluster resources available to run inspection pods. Each pod needs CPU, memory, and storage to mount and analyze VM disks.

Limitations::

* Deep Inspection is available only for {vmw} vSphere providers. It is not available for other source providers.
* {project-short} limits concurrent inspections to 10 by default. Additional inspections are queued until resources become available.

Considerations::

> * Deep Inspection takes longer than standard inspection. It must transfer disk data and perform detailed analysis.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't transfer disk data but rather creates a VM snapshot and inspects the base disks.

* Inspection time depends on VM disk size and cluster resources.

== Inspection methods

{project-short} supports two methods for inspecting VMs before migration:

* Standard inspection: Queries the source provider's API to collect VM metadata. This includes operating system information, disk configuration, and hardware settings. This method is fast. It does not need extra resources. However, it relies on metadata from the provider.

* Deep Inspection: Launches a temporary worker pod in the {ocp-short} cluster. The pod mounts and analyzes the VM's disk images directly. This method gives you more confidence in migration success. It finds guest-level issues that standard inspection might miss.

== How Deep Inspection works

> Deep Inspection launches a temporary pod in your {ocp-short} cluster. The pod uses VDDK to mount the VM's disk images. It analyzes the guest operating system without booting the VM. After the analysis finishes, {project-short} cleans up the pod and stores the results.

Reviewer 2: `It analyzes the guest operating system without booting the VM.`

The analysis doesn't care about the power state of the VM. For running and for stopped VMs we create a snapshot and thus we do not affect their power state.

Deep Inspection provides detailed information about the VM to help assess migration readiness:

[cols="30%,70%",options="header"]
|===
|Category
|Information analyzed

|Operating system and hardware
a|
* Operating system name, version, and architecture
* kernel version
* Installed storage and network drivers

> * VirtIO driver availability

Reviewer 2: Not detected, please remove

|Storage and file systems
a|
* File system types (for example, ext4, xfs, ntfs)
* Partition layouts and mount points
* Root device path (critical for dual-boot or multi-disk VMs)

> * Boot loader configuration

Reviewer 2: Not detected, please remove

|Migration compatibility
a|
* Missing VirtIO drivers required for {virt}
* Unsupported guest operating systems
* Dual-boot configurations requiring root device specification
* Partition layouts that might cause conversion issues

> |===

Reviewer 2: Please remove the whole section as most of these are not implemented yet and are scheduled for 2.13/5.0
